AGW-4905: IP Filter policy renaming (#391)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/ip-allowlist.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: IP, allowlist, validation, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | IP Allowlist
>s|Summary      | Allows a list or range of specified IP addresses to request access   
>s|Category | Security
>s|First Mule version available | v3.8.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| 403 - IP is rejected
|===

The IP Allowlist policy allows a list or a range of specified IP addresses access to a protected resource when a match is found between a source IP (specified when configuring the policy) and a list of individual IPs or range of IPs.

Based on your business need, specify either a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule) or a MEL expression for Mule 3. These expressions define the source IP used by the policy to determine whether the IP belongs to the policy's restricted IP list.

[[specifying_ip_address]]
== Specifying IP Addresses to Allowlist in Your Policy 

Specify IP addresses to allow access to your policy based on:

* The IP address of the request
* The origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-Forwarded-For[x-Forwarded-For] header

> * Any other origin.

Reviewer: No period

=== Allowlisting Access Based on the IP address of the Request

Allowlist access based on the IP address of the request in any of the following ways:

* Define a specific IP address by enumerating it in the Allowlist field, for example, `192.168.1.1`.
* Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask, for example, `192.168.3.1/30`, which includes the consolidated range `192.168.3.01` through `192.168.3.3`.
* Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit, for example, setting `192.168`, which includes IP addresses from `192.168.0.0` through `192.168.255.255`.

> === Allowlisting Access Based on the Origin IP Address of the x-Forwarded-For Header

Reviewer: x > X? Looks like you changed some to lowercase but not all, below

If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load balancer, you can allowlist the client's specific IP address (the IP address originating the request) instead of the address that appears in the request.

For example, if you want to allowlist `192.168.2.3`(private IP) and the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy is `92.40.1.255` (public IP), the client requests appear with the public address using the proxy.

Typically, applications use the `X-Forwarded-For` header to identify the origin IP addresses of a request that was redirected to your endpoint.

> You can use a DataWeave 2.0 or MEL expression in the policy to instruct the service to look for the IP address in the `x-Forwarded-For` header. 

Reviewer: Uppercase or lowercase x?

> = IP Allowlist

Reviewer: I wonder if this title and its peer should be made more precise, something like "Access Control Using the IP Allowlist Policy," "Access Control Using the IP Blocklist Policy"?
We might even want to combine the two as "Access Control Policies"?
Just brainstorming...because my brain is a storm today...lol.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: IP, allowlist, validation, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | IP Allowlist
>s|Summary      | Allows a list or range of specified IP addresses to request access   
>s|Category | Security
>s|First Mule version available | v3.8.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| 403 - IP is rejected
|===

The IP Allowlist policy allows a list or a range of specified IP addresses to access a configured API endpoint.

> The IP Allowlist policy allows access to a protected resource when a match is found between a source IP (specified when configuring the policy) and a list of individual IPs or range of IPs.

Reviewer: These two sentences say the same thing. I wonder if we should use only the second?

> Based on your business need, you can specify a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule) or MEL expression for Mule 3. You specify the expression to define the source IP to be used when the policy tries to determine whether the IP belongs to the restricted IP list defined in the policy.

Reviewer: Alternative wording for your consideration:
```suggestion
Based on your business need, specify either a DataWeave 2.0 expression for Mule runtime engine 4 (Mule) or a MEL expression for Mule 3. These expressions define the source IP used by the policy to determine whether the IP belongs to the policy's restricted IP list.
```

[[specifying_ip_address]]
== Specifying IP Addresses to Allowlist in Your Policy 

> You can specify the IP addresses to approve in the policy in the following ways:

Reviewer: GLOBAL: attempt to replace modal verbs (see style ref) with simple imperatives (suggested also in Line 22):
```suggestion
Specify IP addresses to allow in your policy in the following ways:
```

* Allowlist access based on the IP address of the request.
* Allowlist access based on the origin IP address that is determined by resolving a specific DataWeave or MEL expression, such as the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-Forwarded-For[x-Forwarded-For] header.

> * Any other origin.

Reviewer: I don't understand this list item; it does not logically complete the list intro and is not parallel to the other items. 

The list is introduced as _ways_ to allowlist addresses, but Lines 28-32 seem to be saying that you can allowlist two _types_ of addresses: either request IP addresses or origin IP addresses, including that determined by resolving.....

=== Allowlisting Access Based on the IP address of the Request

> To allowlist access based on the IP address of the request, you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allowlist access based on the IP address of the request in any of the following ways:
```

* Define a specific IP address by enumerating it in the Allowlist field, for example, `192.168.1.1`.

> * Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask. 
> For example, `192.168.3.1/30`, which includes the consolidated range `192.168.3.01` through `192.168.3.3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask, for example, `192.168.3.1/30`, which includes the consolidated range `192.168.3.01` through `192.168.3.3`.
```

> * Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit. 
> +
> For example, setting `192.168` includes IP addresses from `192.168.0.0` through `192.168.255.255`.

Reviewer: This and previous list item edits for parallelism:
```suggestion
* Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit, for example, setting `192.168`, which includes IP addresses from `192.168.0.0` through `192.168.255.255`.
```

=== Allowlisting Access Based on the Origin IP Address of the x-Forwarded-For Header

> If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load balancer, you can allowlist the client's specific IP address (the IP address originating the request) instead of the address that appears in the request.

Reviewer: Why would the audience want or need to use the specific address vs. the origin address?

> For example, if you want to allowlist `192.168.2.3`(private IP) and the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy is `92.40.1.255` (public IP), the client requests appear with the public address using the proxy.

Reviewer: So the benefit is ...what? Concealing the private address?

Typically, applications use the `X-Forwarded-For` header to identify the origin IP addresses of a request that was redirected to your endpoint.

You can use a DataWeave 2.0 or MEL expression in the policy to instruct the service to look for the IP address in the `x-Forwarded-For` header. 

When you insert the IP address in the IP expression field of the policy parameters, Anypoint Platform is instructed to look for the starting IP address in the concatenated values of the `x-Forwarded-For` header of the request:

[source,mel]
----
#[attributes.headers['x-forwarded-for']]
----

== Configuring Policy Parameters

> When you apply the IP Allowlist policy to your API from the UI, you can configure the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you apply the IP Allowlist policy to your API from the UI, configure the following parameters:
```

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description 
|IP expression  |The DataWeave 2.0 or MEL expression to be used for extracting the IP address from this API request. 

> |Allowlist |The list of IP addresses allowed access to the API. You can define one IP or an IP range at a time, as many times required.  For more information, see <<specifying_ip_address,Specifying IP Addresses to Allowlist in Your Policy >>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Allowlist |The list of IP addresses allowed access to the API. You can define one IP or IP range at a time, as many times as required.  For more information, see <<specifying_ip_address,Specifying IP Addresses to Allowlist in Your Policy >>.
```

> |Method & Resource conditions |The option to add configurations to only a select few or all methods and resources of the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Method & Resource conditions |The option to add configurations either to a select few or to all methods and resources of the API.
```
